# Cooking
## Repository of cooking-related charts and data

This repository contains cooking-related charts and data. Much of it was downloaded from the internet (and attributed when possible) and some of it was created by the author.

If you just want the finished documents, just download the PDF files. If you'd like to contribute. please fork the repository and issue a pull request. These documents are formatted for 8 1/2x11" paper. If  you make changes, please try to keep the final output to a single sheet. The documents were produced by LibreOffice 6.3.

## List of Documents:
1. Cooking Weights Equivalents.pdf
* This is a two-page chart showing the number of grams in various units (oz, tablespoons, teaspoons, each, etc) of various ingredients. Use it by locating the ingredient and the units in the first column, and following the row horizontally to the right to the column showing the number of the selected units. The number in that column is the number of grams of that number of units of that ingredient. For example, two tablespoons of coarse kosher salt is equivalent to 28.8 grams.


2. E-RCPS WEIGHT-VOLUME CONVERSION CHART FOR MANY FOODS
* This is a multi-page document giving the weight per volume conversion factors for many ingredients. It was the source information for the Cooking Weights Equivalents chart, in most cases. It can be found on the internet at https://www.e-rcps.com/pasta/links/weight_volume.shtml. Notes in the file also state that, "From the rec.food.cooking FAQ http://home.t-online.de/home/vsack/rfc_faq.html", although that link seems to be dead. Another note says, "This chart was once posted by T. Terrell Banks who got it from a now forgotten source.  It was then preserved on William Chuang's Web site." I haven't tried to track down these sources. I also found this data here: https://stason.org/TULARC/food/cooking/2-7-5-Weight-Volume-Conversion-Chart.html

3. Cooking weight-volume conversion chart for common foods
* This is a cleaned version of the RCPS WEIGHT-VOLUME CONVERSION CHART FOR MANY FOODS data, in LiberOffice Writer format.

4. Bean Cooking times
* This is a one-page summary of the bean cooking times from _Cooking Under Pressure_, Lorna Sass, first edition, 2009, page 196. Significant contribution of the author of this document is the column “Fresh beans” time under pressure. This file is provided in both LibreOffice and PDF format.

5. Oven Temperature Converter
* This is a nomograph that converts between degrees Celsius and degrees Fahrenheit. It also has scales for British gas oven marks and descriptive labels, such as 'hot oven.' The nomograph was generated by the PyNomo program; the source code file ends in '.py'. Also includes the PDF output file.

6. Atlas Pasta Machine Thicknesses
* This is a table of the thicknesses produced by one sample of the Atlas 150 Classic (Wellness) pasta machine, made by Marcato S.p.A of Italy. Measurements were made by passing a short piece of soft wire (solder) through the machine at the various settings and places on the roller, then measuring the thickness of the flattened wire with a micrometer. This is only available as a PDF file.

7. Proofing Temperature Converter
* This is a nomograph that converts between degrees Celsius and degrees Fahrenheit. It ranges from 20-32 degrees Celsius, where dough and bread proofing usually occurs. The nomograph was generated by the PyNomo program; the source code file ends in '.py'. Also includes the PDF output file.

